packages/integrations/sitemap/README.md, before:

# @astrojs/sitemap 🗺

This **[Astro integration][astro-integration]** generates a sitemap for your Astro project.

Sitemaps outline all of the pages, videos, and files on your site. Search engines like Google read this file to crawl your site more efficiently. [See Google's own advice on sitemaps](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/overview) to learn more.

## Installation

There are two ways to add integrations to your project. Let's try the most convenient option first!

### (experimental) `astro add` command

Astro includes a CLI tool for adding first party integrations: `astro add`. This command will:
1. (Optionally) Install all necessary dependencies and peer dependencies
2. (Also optionally) Update your `astro.config.*` file to apply this integration

To install `@astrojs/sitemap`, run the following from your project directory and follow the prompts:

```sh
# Using NPM
npx astro add sitemap
# Using Yarn
yarn astro add sitemap
# Using PNPM
pnpx astro add sitemap
```

If you run into any hiccups, [feel free to log an issue on our GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues) and try the manual installation steps below.

### Install dependencies manually

First, install the `@astrojs/sitemap` integration like so:

```
npm install @astrojs/sitemap
```

Then, apply this integration to your `astro.config.*` file using the `integrations` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  // ...
  integrations: [sitemap()],
}
```

## Getting started

`@astrojs/sitemap` requires a deployment / site URL for generation. Add your site's URL under your `astro.config.*` using the `site` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  // ...
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [sitemap()],
}
```

Now, [build your site for production](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-build) via the `astro build` command. You should find your _sitemap_ under `dist/sitemap-index.xml` and `dist/sitemap-0.xml`!

Generated sitemap content for two pages website:

**sitemap-index.xml**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <sitemapindex xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
  <sitemap>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/sitemap-0.xml</loc>
  </sitemap>
</sitemapindex>
```

**sitemap-0.xml**
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9" xmlns:news="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9" xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:image="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1" xmlns:video="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1">
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/</loc>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/second-page/</loc>
  </url>
</urlset>
```

You can also check our [Astro Integration Documentation][astro-integration] for more on integrations.

## Configuration

### filter

All pages are included in your sitemap by default. By adding a custom `filter`, you can filter included pages by URL.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      filter: (page) => page !== 'https://stargazers.club/secret-vip-lounge'
    }),
  ],
}
```

The `page` function parameter is the full URL of your rendered page, including your `site` domain. Return `true` to include a page in your sitemap, and `false` to remove it.

### canonicalURL

If present, we use the `site` config option as the base for all sitemap URLs. Use `canonicalURL` to override this.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      // https://astronaut.party will be used for all sitemap URLs instead
      canonicalURL: 'https://astronaut.party',
    }),
  ],
}
```

### entryLimit

Non-negative `Number` of entries per sitemap file. Default value is 45000. A sitemap index and multiple sitemaps are created if you have more entries. See explanation about large sitemaps on [Google](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/large-sitemaps).

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      entryLimit: 10000,
    }),
  ],
}
```

### changefreq, lastmod, priority

`changefreq` - How frequently the page is likely to change. Available values: `always` \| `hourly` \| `daily` \| `weekly` \| `monthly` \| `yearly` \| `never`.    

`priority` - The priority of this URL relative to other URLs on your site. Valid values range from 0.0 to 1.0.  

`lastmod` - The date of page last modification.  

The `changefreq` and `priority` are ignored by Google.  

See detailed explanation of sitemap specific options on [sitemap.org](https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html).  


:exclamation: This integration uses 'astro:build:done' hook. The hook exposes generated page paths only. So with present version of Astro the integration has no abilities to analyze a page source, frontmatter etc. The integration can add `changefreq`, `lastmod` and `priority` attributes only in a batch or nothing.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      changefreq: 'weekly',
      priority: 0.7,
      lastmod: new Date('2022-02-24'),
    }),
  ],
}
```

### serialize

Async or sync function called for each sitemap entry just before writing to a disk.  

It receives as parameter a `SitemapItem` object which consists of `url` (required, absolute page URL) and optional `changefreq`, `lastmod` (ISO formatted date, `String` type), `priority` and `links` properties.  

Optional `links` property contains the `LinkItem` list of alternate pages including a parent page.  
The `LinkItem` type has two required fields: `url` (the fully-qualified URL for the version of this page for the specified language) and `lang` (a supported language code targeted by this version of the page).

The `serialize` function should return `SitemapItem`, touched or not.  

The example below shows the ability to add the sitemap specific properties individually.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      serialize(item) {
        if (/your-special-page/.test(item.url)) {
          item.changefreq = 'daily';
          item.lastmod = new Date();
          item.priority = 0.9;
        }
        return item;
      },
    }),
  ],
}
```

### i18n

To localize a sitemap you should supply the integration config with the `i18n` option. The integration will check generated page paths on presence of locale keys in paths.

`i18n` object has two required properties:

- `defaultLocale`: `String`. Its value must exist as one of `locales` keys.
- `locales`:  `Record<String, String>`, key/value - pairs. The key is used to look for a locale part in a page path. The value is a language attribute, only English alphabet and hyphen allowed. See more about language attribute on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/lang).


Read more about localization on Google in [Advanced SEO](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/localized-versions#all-method-guidelines).

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({  
      i18n: {
        defaultLocale: 'en',   // All urls that don't contain `es` or `fr` after `https://stargazers.club/` will be treated as default locale, i.e. `en`
        locales: {
          en: 'en-US',         // The `defaultLocale` value must present in `locales` keys
          es: 'es-ES',
          fr: 'fr-CA',
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
};
...

```

The sitemap content will be:

```xml
...
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/es/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/fr/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/es/second-page/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/second-page/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/second-page/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/second-page/"/>
  </url>
...
```

[astro-integration]: https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/
[astro-ui-frameworks]: https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#using-framework-components

Commit message:

Fix: document sitemap + SSR use case (#3689)
* fix: offer suggestion for SSR sitemap users

* docs: add customPages to README

* chore: changeset

packages/integrations/sitemap/README.md, after:

# @astrojs/sitemap 🗺

This **[Astro integration][astro-integration]** generates a sitemap for your Astro project.

Sitemaps outline all of the pages, videos, and files on your site. Search engines like Google read this file to crawl your site more efficiently. [See Google's own advice on sitemaps](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/overview) to learn more.

## Installation

There are two ways to add integrations to your project. Let's try the most convenient option first!

### (experimental) `astro add` command

Astro includes a CLI tool for adding first party integrations: `astro add`. This command will:
1. (Optionally) Install all necessary dependencies and peer dependencies
2. (Also optionally) Update your `astro.config.*` file to apply this integration

To install `@astrojs/sitemap`, run the following from your project directory and follow the prompts:

```sh
# Using NPM
npx astro add sitemap
# Using Yarn
yarn astro add sitemap
# Using PNPM
pnpx astro add sitemap
```

If you run into any hiccups, [feel free to log an issue on our GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues) and try the manual installation steps below.

### Install dependencies manually

First, install the `@astrojs/sitemap` integration like so:

```
npm install @astrojs/sitemap
```

Then, apply this integration to your `astro.config.*` file using the `integrations` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  // ...
  integrations: [sitemap()],
}
```

## Getting started

`@astrojs/sitemap` requires a deployment / site URL for generation. Add your site's URL under your `astro.config.*` using the `site` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  // ...
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [sitemap()],
}
```

Now, [build your site for production](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-build) via the `astro build` command. You should find your _sitemap_ under `dist/sitemap-index.xml` and `dist/sitemap-0.xml`!

Generated sitemap content for two pages website:

**sitemap-index.xml**

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <sitemapindex xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9">
  <sitemap>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/sitemap-0.xml</loc>
  </sitemap>
</sitemapindex>
```

**sitemap-0.xml**
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<urlset xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9" xmlns:news="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-news/0.9" xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:image="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-image/1.1" xmlns:video="http://www.google.com/schemas/sitemap-video/1.1">
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/</loc>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/second-page/</loc>
  </url>
</urlset>
```

You can also check our [Astro Integration Documentation][astro-integration] for more on integrations.

## Configuration

### filter

All pages are included in your sitemap by default. By adding a custom `filter`, you can filter included pages by URL.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      filter: (page) => page !== 'https://stargazers.club/secret-vip-lounge'
    }),
  ],
}
```

The `page` function parameter is the full URL of your rendered page, including your `site` domain. Return `true` to include a page in your sitemap, and `false` to remove it.

### customPages

You may have custom routes to add to your sitemap. To append these to your sitemap, pass an array of valid URLs including the base origin:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      customPages: ['https://stargazers.biz/careers'],
    }),
  ],
}
```

💡 You should also use `customPages` to manually list sitemap pages when using an SSR adapter. Currently, we cannot detect your site's pages unless you are building statically. To avoid an empty sitemap, list all pages (including the base origin) with this configuration option!

### canonicalURL

If present, we use the `site` config option as the base for all sitemap URLs. Use `canonicalURL` to override this.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      // https://astronaut.party will be used for all sitemap URLs instead
      canonicalURL: 'https://astronaut.party',
    }),
  ],
}
```

### entryLimit

Non-negative `Number` of entries per sitemap file. Default value is 45000. A sitemap index and multiple sitemaps are created if you have more entries. See explanation about large sitemaps on [Google](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/sitemaps/large-sitemaps).

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      entryLimit: 10000,
    }),
  ],
}
```

### changefreq, lastmod, priority

`changefreq` - How frequently the page is likely to change. Available values: `always` \| `hourly` \| `daily` \| `weekly` \| `monthly` \| `yearly` \| `never`.    

`priority` - The priority of this URL relative to other URLs on your site. Valid values range from 0.0 to 1.0.  

`lastmod` - The date of page last modification.  

The `changefreq` and `priority` are ignored by Google.  

See detailed explanation of sitemap specific options on [sitemap.org](https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html).  


:exclamation: This integration uses 'astro:build:done' hook. The hook exposes generated page paths only. So with present version of Astro the integration has no abilities to analyze a page source, frontmatter etc. The integration can add `changefreq`, `lastmod` and `priority` attributes only in a batch or nothing.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      changefreq: 'weekly',
      priority: 0.7,
      lastmod: new Date('2022-02-24'),
    }),
  ],
}
```

### serialize

Async or sync function called for each sitemap entry just before writing to a disk.  

It receives as parameter a `SitemapItem` object which consists of `url` (required, absolute page URL) and optional `changefreq`, `lastmod` (ISO formatted date, `String` type), `priority` and `links` properties.  

Optional `links` property contains the `LinkItem` list of alternate pages including a parent page.  
The `LinkItem` type has two required fields: `url` (the fully-qualified URL for the version of this page for the specified language) and `lang` (a supported language code targeted by this version of the page).

The `serialize` function should return `SitemapItem`, touched or not.  

The example below shows the ability to add the sitemap specific properties individually.

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({
      serialize(item) {
        if (/your-special-page/.test(item.url)) {
          item.changefreq = 'daily';
          item.lastmod = new Date();
          item.priority = 0.9;
        }
        return item;
      },
    }),
  ],
}
```

### i18n

To localize a sitemap you should supply the integration config with the `i18n` option. The integration will check generated page paths on presence of locale keys in paths.

`i18n` object has two required properties:

- `defaultLocale`: `String`. Its value must exist as one of `locales` keys.
- `locales`:  `Record<String, String>`, key/value - pairs. The key is used to look for a locale part in a page path. The value is a language attribute, only English alphabet and hyphen allowed. See more about language attribute on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/lang).


Read more about localization on Google in [Advanced SEO](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/localized-versions#all-method-guidelines).

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import sitemap from '@astrojs/sitemap';

export default {
  site: 'https://stargazers.club',
  integrations: [
    sitemap({  
      i18n: {
        defaultLocale: 'en',   // All urls that don't contain `es` or `fr` after `https://stargazers.club/` will be treated as default locale, i.e. `en`
        locales: {
          en: 'en-US',         // The `defaultLocale` value must present in `locales` keys
          es: 'es-ES',
          fr: 'fr-CA',
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
};
...

```

The sitemap content will be:

```xml
...
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/es/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/fr/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/"/>
  </url>
  <url>
    <loc>https://stargazers.club/es/second-page/</loc>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="es-ES" href="https://stargazers.club/es/second-page/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="fr-CA" href="https://stargazers.club/fr/second-page/"/>
    <xhtml:link rel="alternate" hreflang="en-US" href="https://stargazers.club/second-page/"/>
  </url>
...
```

[astro-integration]: https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/
[astro-ui-frameworks]: https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#using-framework-components
