packages/integrations/turbolinks/README.md, before:

# @astrojs/turbolinks ⚡️

This **[Astro integration][astro-integration]** brings [Turbo](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo) to your Astro project.

Turbolinks is a plug-and-play solution to bring single page app (SPA) routing to your site. This brings performant navigation without the added complexity of a client-side JavaScript framework.

## Installation

There are two ways to add integrations to your project. Let's try the most convenient option first!

### (experimental) `astro add` command

Astro includes a CLI tool for adding first party integrations: `astro add`. This command will:
1. (Optionally) Install all necessary dependencies and peer dependencies
2. (Also optionally) Update your `astro.config.*` file to apply this integration

To install `@astrojs/turbolinks`, run the following from your project directory and follow the prompts:

```sh
# Using NPM
npx astro add turbolinks
# Using Yarn
yarn astro add turbolinks
# Using PNPM
pnpx astro add turbolinks
```

If you run into any hiccups, [feel free to log an issue on our GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues) and try the manual installation steps below.

### Install dependencies manually

First, install the `@astrojs/turbolinks` integration like so:

```
npm install @astrojs/turbolinks
```

Then, apply this integration to your `astro.config.*` file using the `integrations` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import turbolinks from '@astrojs/turbolinks';

export default {
  // ...
  integrations: [turbolinks()],
}
```

## Getting started

Turbo links, frames, and more should be ready-to-use with zero config. For instance, try navigating between different pages via links. You should no longer see browser refreshes! You will also find each page request passing through `turbolinks` under the "Network" tab in [your browser's dev tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/).

Head to [the Turbo handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/introduction) for all options and features available. You can also check our [Astro Integration Documentation][astro-integration] for more on integrations.

[astro-integration]: https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/
[astro-ui-frameworks]: https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#using-framework-components

Commit message:

Deprecate @astrojs/turbolinks (#3383)
* deprecating the Turbolinks integration

* chore: add changeset

packages/integrations/turbolinks/README.md, after:

# This integration is no longer actively supported

[Turbolinks](https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks) is no longer under active development. The `@astrojs/turbolinks` integration has been deprecated.

## Looking for an alternative?

Check out [swup](https://swup.js.org/)! If you are using any `client:*` script for partial hydration, make sure to install the `@swup/scripts-plugin` to ensure components are rehydrated after a page navigation.

# @astrojs/turbolinks ⚡️

This **[Astro integration][astro-integration]** brings [Turbo](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo) to your Astro project.

Turbolinks is a plug-and-play solution to bring single page app (SPA) routing to your site. This brings performant navigation without the added complexity of a client-side JavaScript framework.

## Installation

There are two ways to add integrations to your project. Let's try the most convenient option first!

### (experimental) `astro add` command

Astro includes a CLI tool for adding first party integrations: `astro add`. This command will:
1. (Optionally) Install all necessary dependencies and peer dependencies
2. (Also optionally) Update your `astro.config.*` file to apply this integration

To install `@astrojs/turbolinks`, run the following from your project directory and follow the prompts:

```sh
# Using NPM
npx astro add turbolinks
# Using Yarn
yarn astro add turbolinks
# Using PNPM
pnpx astro add turbolinks
```

If you run into any hiccups, [feel free to log an issue on our GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues) and try the manual installation steps below.

### Install dependencies manually

First, install the `@astrojs/turbolinks` integration like so:

```
npm install @astrojs/turbolinks
```

Then, apply this integration to your `astro.config.*` file using the `integrations` property:

__astro.config.mjs__

```js
import turbolinks from '@astrojs/turbolinks';

export default {
  // ...
  integrations: [turbolinks()],
}
```

## Getting started

Turbo links, frames, and more should be ready-to-use with zero config. For instance, try navigating between different pages via links. You should no longer see browser refreshes! You will also find each page request passing through `turbolinks` under the "Network" tab in [your browser's dev tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/).

Head to [the Turbo handbook](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/introduction) for all options and features available. You can also check our [Astro Integration Documentation][astro-integration] for more on integrations.

[astro-integration]: https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/
[astro-ui-frameworks]: https://docs.astro.build/en/core-concepts/framework-components/#using-framework-components
