docs/src/pages/getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Getting Started
---

Astro is a modern static site builder. Learn what Astro is all about from [our homepage](https://astro.build/) or [our release post](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro). This page is an overview of the Astro documentation and all related resources.

Looking for a quick overview of what Astro is? [Visit our homepage.](https://astro.build)

## Try Astro

The easiest way to try Astro is to run `npm init astro` in a new directory on your machine. Our CLI wizard will assist you in starting a new Astro project.

To get started with Astro in 5 quick and easy steps, visit our [Quick-Start guide](quick-start).

Alternatively, read our [Installation Guide](/installation) for a full walk-through on getting set up with Astro.

### Online Playgrounds

If you're interested in playing around with Astro in the browser, you can use an online code playground. Try our "Hello World!" template on [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/astro-template-hugb3).

_Note: some features (ex: Fast Refresh) are currently limited on CodeSandbox._

## Learn Astro

All manner of people come to Astro from different backgrounds bringing with them different learning styles. Whether you prefer a more theoretical or a practical approach, we hope you'll find this section helpful.

- If you prefer to **learn by doing**, start with our [examples library](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/tree/main/examples).
- If you prefer to **learn concepts step by step**, start with our [basic concepts and guides](/core-concepts/project-structure).

Like any unfamiliar technology, Astro comes with a slight learning curve. However, with practice and some patience, we know, you _will_ get the hang of it, in no time.

### Learn `.astro` Syntax

When you begin to learn Astro, you'll see many files using the `.astro` file extension. This is **Astro's Component Syntax**: a special HTML-like file format which Astro uses for templating. It was designed to feel familiar to anyone with HTML or JSX experience.

Our helpful guide on [Astro components](/core-concepts/astro-components) introduces you to the Astro syntax, and is the best way to learn.

### API Reference

This documentation section is useful when you want to learn more details about a particular Astro API. For example, [Configuration Reference](/reference/configuration-reference) lists all possible configuration options available to you. [Built-in Components Reference](/reference/builtin-components) lists all available core components, like `<Markdown />` and `<Code />`.

### Versioned Documentation

This documentation always reflects the latest stable version of Astro. Once we hit the v1.0 milestone, we will add the ability to view versioned documentation.

## Staying Informed

The [@astrodotbuild](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild) Twitter account is the official source for the updates from the Astro team.

We also post release announcements to our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) in the #announcements channel.

Not every Astro release deserves its own blog post, but you can find a detailed changelog for every release in the [`CHANGELOG.md` file in the Astro repository](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/CHANGELOG.md).

## Something Missing?

If something is missing in the documentation or if you found some part confusing, please [file an issue for the documentation](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/issues/new/choose) with your suggestions for improvement, or tweet at the [@astrodotbuild](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild) Twitter account. We love hearing from you!

## Credit

This getting started guide was originally based off of [React's](https://reactjs.org/) getting started guide.

Commit message:

scale back the examples page

docs/src/pages/getting-started.md, after:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Getting Started
---

Astro is a modern static site builder. Learn what Astro is all about from [our homepage](https://astro.build/) or [our release post](https://astro.build/blog/introducing-astro). This page is an overview of the Astro documentation and all related resources.

Looking for a quick overview of what Astro is? [Visit our homepage.](https://astro.build)

## Try Astro

The easiest way to try Astro is to run `npm init astro` in a new directory on your machine. Our CLI wizard will assist you in starting a new Astro project.

To get started with Astro in 5 quick and easy steps, visit our [Quick-Start guide](quick-start).

Alternatively, read our [Installation Guide](/installation) for a full walk-through on getting set up with Astro.

### Example Projects

If you prefer to learn Astro by example, check out our [complete library of examples](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/tree/main/examples) on GitHub.

You can check out any of these examples on your local machine by running `npm init astro` with the `--template` CLI flag. The `--template` flag also supports third-party, community templates.

```bash
# Run the init wizard and use this official template
npm init astro -- --template [OFFICIAL_EXAMPLE_NAME]
# Run the init wizard and use this community template
npm init astro -- --template [GITHUB_USER]/[REPO_NAME]
npm init astro -- --template [GITHUB_USER]/[REPO_NAME]/path/to/example
```

### Online Playgrounds

If you're interested in playing around with Astro in the browser, you can use an online code playground. Try our "Hello World!" template on [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/astro-template-hugb3).

_Note: some features (ex: Fast Refresh) are currently limited on CodeSandbox._

## Learn Astro

All manner of people come to Astro from different backgrounds bringing with them different learning styles. Whether you prefer a more theoretical or a practical approach, we hope you'll find this section helpful.

- If you prefer to **learn by doing**, start with our [examples library](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/tree/main/examples).
- If you prefer to **learn concepts step by step**, start with our [basic concepts and guides](/core-concepts/project-structure).

Like any unfamiliar technology, Astro comes with a slight learning curve. However, with practice and some patience, we know, you _will_ get the hang of it, in no time.

### Learn `.astro` Syntax

When you begin to learn Astro, you'll see many files using the `.astro` file extension. This is **Astro's Component Syntax**: a special HTML-like file format which Astro uses for templating. It was designed to feel familiar to anyone with HTML or JSX experience.

Our helpful guide on [Astro components](/core-concepts/astro-components) introduces you to the Astro syntax, and is the best way to learn.

### API Reference

This documentation section is useful when you want to learn more details about a particular Astro API. For example, [Configuration Reference](/reference/configuration-reference) lists all possible configuration options available to you. [Built-in Components Reference](/reference/builtin-components) lists all available core components, like `<Markdown />` and `<Code />`.

### Versioned Documentation

This documentation always reflects the latest stable version of Astro. Once we hit the v1.0 milestone, we will add the ability to view versioned documentation.

## Staying Informed

The [@astrodotbuild](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild) Twitter account is the official source for the updates from the Astro team.

We also post release announcements to our [Discord community](https://astro.build/chat) in the #announcements channel.

Not every Astro release deserves its own blog post, but you can find a detailed changelog for every release in the [`CHANGELOG.md` file in the Astro repository](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/blob/main/packages/astro/CHANGELOG.md).

## Something Missing?

If something is missing in the documentation or if you found some part confusing, please [file an issue for the documentation](https://github.com/snowpackjs/astro/issues/new/choose) with your suggestions for improvement, or tweet at the [@astrodotbuild](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild) Twitter account. We love hearing from you!

## Credit

This getting started guide was originally based off of [React's](https://reactjs.org/) getting started guide.
