docs/src/pages/migration/0.21.0.md, before:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Migrating to v0.21
description: How to migrate projects from Astro v0.20.
---

## Vite

Starting in v0.21, Astro is built with [Vite].
As a result, configurations written in `snowpack.config.mjs` should be moved into `astro.config.mjs`.

```js
// @ts-check

/** @type {import('astro').AstroUserConfig} */
export default {
  renderers: [],
  vite: {
    plugins: [],
  },
};
```

To learn more about configuring Vite, please visit their [configuration guide](https://vitejs.dev/config/).

## Aliasing

In Astro v0.21, import aliases can be added from `tsconfig.json` or `jsconfig.json`.

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@/components/*": ["components/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

_These aliases are integrated automatically into [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig) and other editors._

## Variables in Scripts & Styles

In Astro v0.21, server-side variables can be passed into client-side `<style>` or `<script>`.

```astro
---
// tick.astro
const colors = { foregroundColor: "rgb(221 243 228)", backgroundColor: "rgb(24 121 78)" }
---
<style define:vars={colors}>
  h-tick {
    background-color: var(--backgroundColor);
    border-radius: 50%;
    color: var(--foregroundColor);
    height: 15px;
    width: 15px;
  }
</style>
<h-tick>✓</h-tick>
```

## Components in Markdown

In Astro v0.21, Components from any framework can be used within Markdown files.

```md
---
Layout: '...'
setup: |
  import MyReactComponent from '../components/MyReactComponent.jsx'
---

# Hydrating on visibility

<MyReactComponent client:visible>

# Hello world!

</MyReactComponent>
```

## Environment Variables

In Astro v0.21, environment variables can be loaded from `.env` files in your project directory.

```ini
.env                # loaded in all cases
.env.local          # loaded in all cases, ignored by git
.env.[mode]         # only loaded in specified mode
.env.[mode].local   # only loaded in specified mode, ignored by git
```

For security purposes, only variables prefixed with `PUBLIC_` are accessible to your code.

```ini
SECRET_PASSWORD=password123
PUBLIC_ANYBODY=there
```

In this example, `PUBLIC_ANYBODY` will be available as `import.meta.env.PUBLIC_ANYBODY` in server or client code, while `SECRET_PASSWORD` will not.

> In prior releases, these variables were prefixed with `SNOWPACK_PUBLIC_` and required the `@snowpack/plugin-env` plugin.

## File Extensions

In Astro v0.21, files need to be referenced by their actual extension, exactly as it is on disk.

```tsx
// Div.tsx
export default function Div(props) {
  return <div />;
}
```

In this example, `Div.tsx` would need to be referenced as `Div.tsx`, not `Div.jsx`.

```diff
- import Div from './Div.jsx' // Astro v0.20
+ import Div from './Div.tsx' // Astro v0.21
```

This same change applies to styles.

```scss
// Div.scss
div {
  all: unset;
}
```

```diff
- <link rel="stylesheet" href={Astro.resolve('./Div.css')}>
+ <link rel="stylesheet" href={Astro.resolve('./Div.scss')}>
```

## Plugins

In Astro v0.21, Vite plugins may be configured within `astro.config.mjs`.

```js
import { imagetools } from 'vite-imagetools';

export default {
  vite: {
    plugins: [imagetools()],
  },
};
```

To learn more about Vite plugins, please visit their [plugin guide](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html).

## Custom Renderers

In Astro v0.21, plugins should now use `viteConfig()`.

```diff
// renderer-svelte/index.js
+ import { svelte } from '@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte';

export default {
  name: '@astrojs/renderer-svelte',
  client: './client.js',
  server: './server.js',
-  snowpackPlugin: '@snowpack/plugin-svelte',
-  snowpackPluginOptions: { compilerOptions: { hydratable: true } },
+  viteConfig() {
+    return {
+      optimizeDeps: {
+        include: ['@astrojs/renderer-svelte/client.js', 'svelte', 'svelte/internal'],
+        exclude: ['@astrojs/renderer-svelte/server.js'],
+      },
+      plugins: [
+        svelte({
+          emitCss: true,
+          compilerOptions: { hydratable: true },
+        }),
+      ],
+    };
+  },
}
```

To learn more about Vite plugins, please visit their [plugin guide](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html).

> In prior releases, these were configured with `snowpackPlugin` or `snowpackPluginOptions`.

## Styling Changes

### Autoprefixer

Autoprefixer is no longer run by default. To enable:

1. Install the latest version (`npm i autoprefixer`)
2. Create a `postcss.config.cjs` file at the root of your project with:
   ```js
   module.exports = {
     plugins: {
       autoprefixer: {},
     },
   };
   ```

[snowpack]: https://www.snowpack.dev
[vite]: https://vitejs.dev

Commit message:

Doc improvements (#1929)
* Update astro & markdown code blocks for consistency

* Add 'JSX in Frontmatter' note to Migration Guide

docs/src/pages/migration/0.21.0.md, after:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Migrating to v0.21
description: How to migrate projects from Astro v0.20.
---

## Vite

Starting in v0.21, Astro is built with [Vite].
As a result, configurations written in `snowpack.config.mjs` should be moved into `astro.config.mjs`.

```js
// @ts-check

/** @type {import('astro').AstroUserConfig} */
export default {
  renderers: [],
  vite: {
    plugins: [],
  },
};
```

To learn more about configuring Vite, please visit their [configuration guide](https://vitejs.dev/config/).

## Aliasing

In Astro v0.21, import aliases can be added from `tsconfig.json` or `jsconfig.json`.

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "@/components/*": ["components/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

_These aliases are integrated automatically into [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/jsconfig) and other editors._

## Variables in Scripts & Styles

In Astro v0.21, server-side variables can be passed into client-side `<style>` or `<script>`.

```astro
---
// tick.astro
const colors = { foregroundColor: "rgb(221 243 228)", backgroundColor: "rgb(24 121 78)" }
---
<style define:vars={colors}>
  h-tick {
    background-color: var(--backgroundColor);
    border-radius: 50%;
    color: var(--foregroundColor);
    height: 15px;
    width: 15px;
  }
</style>
<h-tick>✓</h-tick>
```

## Components in Markdown

In Astro v0.21, Components from any framework can be used within Markdown files.

```markdown
---
Layout: '...'
setup: |
  import MyReactComponent from '../components/MyReactComponent.jsx'
---

# Hydrating on visibility

<MyReactComponent client:visible>

# Hello world!

</MyReactComponent>
```

## JSX in Frontmatter

In Astro v0.21, JSX cannot be used within Frontmatter.

## Environment Variables

In Astro v0.21, environment variables can be loaded from `.env` files in your project directory.

```ini
.env                # loaded in all cases
.env.local          # loaded in all cases, ignored by git
.env.[mode]         # only loaded in specified mode
.env.[mode].local   # only loaded in specified mode, ignored by git
```

For security purposes, only variables prefixed with `PUBLIC_` are accessible to your code.

```ini
SECRET_PASSWORD=password123
PUBLIC_ANYBODY=there
```

In this example, `PUBLIC_ANYBODY` will be available as `import.meta.env.PUBLIC_ANYBODY` in server or client code, while `SECRET_PASSWORD` will not.

> In prior releases, these variables were prefixed with `SNOWPACK_PUBLIC_` and required the `@snowpack/plugin-env` plugin.

## File Extensions

In Astro v0.21, files need to be referenced by their actual extension, exactly as it is on disk.

```tsx
// Div.tsx
export default function Div(props) {
  return <div />;
}
```

In this example, `Div.tsx` would need to be referenced as `Div.tsx`, not `Div.jsx`.

```diff
- import Div from './Div.jsx' // Astro v0.20
+ import Div from './Div.tsx' // Astro v0.21
```

This same change applies to styles.

```scss
// Div.scss
div {
  all: unset;
}
```

```diff
- <link rel="stylesheet" href={Astro.resolve('./Div.css')}>
+ <link rel="stylesheet" href={Astro.resolve('./Div.scss')}>
```

## Plugins

In Astro v0.21, Vite plugins may be configured within `astro.config.mjs`.

```js
import { imagetools } from 'vite-imagetools';

export default {
  vite: {
    plugins: [imagetools()],
  },
};
```

To learn more about Vite plugins, please visit their [plugin guide](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html).

## Custom Renderers

In Astro v0.21, plugins should now use `viteConfig()`.

```diff
// renderer-svelte/index.js
+ import { svelte } from '@sveltejs/vite-plugin-svelte';

export default {
  name: '@astrojs/renderer-svelte',
  client: './client.js',
  server: './server.js',
-  snowpackPlugin: '@snowpack/plugin-svelte',
-  snowpackPluginOptions: { compilerOptions: { hydratable: true } },
+  viteConfig() {
+    return {
+      optimizeDeps: {
+        include: ['@astrojs/renderer-svelte/client.js', 'svelte', 'svelte/internal'],
+        exclude: ['@astrojs/renderer-svelte/server.js'],
+      },
+      plugins: [
+        svelte({
+          emitCss: true,
+          compilerOptions: { hydratable: true },
+        }),
+      ],
+    };
+  },
}
```

To learn more about Vite plugins, please visit their [plugin guide](https://vitejs.dev/guide/using-plugins.html).

> In prior releases, these were configured with `snowpackPlugin` or `snowpackPluginOptions`.

## Styling Changes

### Autoprefixer

Autoprefixer is no longer run by default. To enable:

1. Install the latest version (`npm i autoprefixer`)
2. Create a `postcss.config.cjs` file at the root of your project with:
   ```js
   module.exports = {
     plugins: {
       autoprefixer: {},
     },
   };
   ```

[snowpack]: https://www.snowpack.dev
[vite]: https://vitejs.dev
