docs/cli.md, before:

## 👩🏽‍💻 Command Line Interface

### Global Flags

#### `--config path`

Specify the path to the config file. Defaults to `astro.config.mjs`. Use this if you use a different name for your configuration file or have your config file in another folder.

```shell
astro --config config/astro.config.mjs dev
```

#### `--project-root path`

Specify the path to the project root. If not specified the current working directory is assumed to be the root.

The root is used for finding the Astro configuration file.

```shell
astro --project-root examples/snowpack dev
```

#### `--version`

Print the Astro version number and exit.

#### `--help`

Print the help message and exit.

### Commands

#### `astro dev`

Runs the Astro development server. This starts an HTTP server that responds to requests for pages stored in `src/pages` (or which folder is specified in your [configuration](../README.md##%EF%B8%8F-configuration)).

See the [dev server](./dev.md) docs for more information on how the dev server works.

**Flags**

##### `--port`

Specifies should port to run on. Defaults to `3000`.

Commit message:

Add verbose and reload commands (#297)
* Add verbose and reload commands

* Adds docs

* Adds a changeset

* Update witty-colts-fix.md

Co-authored-by: Nate Moore <natemoo-re@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/cli.md, after:

## 👩🏽‍💻 Command Line Interface

### Global Flags

#### `--config path`

Specify the path to the config file. Defaults to `astro.config.mjs`. Use this if you use a different name for your configuration file or have your config file in another folder.

```shell
astro --config config/astro.config.mjs dev
```

#### `--project-root path`

Specify the path to the project root. If not specified the current working directory is assumed to be the root.

The root is used for finding the Astro configuration file.

```shell
astro --project-root examples/snowpack dev
```

#### `--reload`

Clears the cache (dependencies are built within Astro apps).

#### `--verbose`

Enables verbose logging, which is helpful when debugging an issue.

#### `--version`

Print the Astro version number and exit.

#### `--help`

Print the help message and exit.

### Commands

#### `astro dev`

Runs the Astro development server. This starts an HTTP server that responds to requests for pages stored in `src/pages` (or which folder is specified in your [configuration](../README.md##%EF%B8%8F-configuration)).

See the [dev server](./dev.md) docs for more information on how the dev server works.

**Flags**

##### `--port`

Specifies should port to run on. Defaults to `3000`.
