docs/src/pages/guides/imports.md, before:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Supported Imports
description: Learn how to import different content types with Astro.
---

Astro uses Snowpack as its internal build system. Snowpack provides Astro with built-in support for the following file types, with no configuration required:

- JavaScript (`.js`, `.mjs`)
- TypeScript (`.ts`, `.tsx`)
- JSON (`.json`)
- JSX (`.jsx`, `.tsx`)
- CSS (`.css`)
- CSS Modules (`.module.css`)
- Images & Assets (`.svg`, `.jpg`, `.png`, etc.)
- Astro Components (`.astro`)
- Markdown (`.md`)
- WASM (`.wasm`)

Any files in your `public/` directory are copied into the final build, untouched by Snowpack or Astro. The following applies to files in your `src/` directory, which Astro is ultimately responsible for.

## JavaScript & ESM

Astro was designed for JavaScript's native ES Module (ESM) syntax. ESM lets you define explicit imports & exports that browsers and build tools can better understand and optimize for. If you're familiar with the `import` and `export` keywords in JavaScript, then you already know ESM!

```js
// ESM Example - src/user.js
export function getUser() {
  /* ... */
}

// src/index.js
import { getUser } from './user.js';
```

All browsers now support ESM, so Astro is able to ship this code directly to the browser during development.

## TypeScript

Astro includes built-in support to build TypeScript files (`*.ts`) to JavaScript. Astro components also support TypeScript in the frontmatter script section.

Note that this built-in support is build only. By default, Astro does not type-check your TypeScript code.

<!-- To integrate type checking into your development/build workflow, add the [@snowpack/plugin-typescript](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@snowpack/plugin-typescript) plugin. -->

## JSX

Astro includes built-in support to build JSX files (`*.jsx` & `*.tsx`) to JavaScript.

If you are using Preact, Astro will detect your Preact import and switch to use the Preact-style JSX `h()` function. This is all done automatically for you.

**Note: Astro does not support JSX in `.js`/`.ts` files.**

## JSON

```js
// Load the JSON object via the default export
import json from './data.json';
```

Astro supports importing JSON files directly into your application. Imported files return the full JSON object in the default import.

## CSS

```js
// Load and inject 'style.css' onto the page
import './style.css';
```

Astro supports importing CSS files directly into your application. Imported styles expose no exports, but importing one will automatically add those styles to the page. This works for all CSS files by default, and can support compile-to-CSS languages like Sass & Less via plugins.

If you prefer not to write CSS, Astro also supports all popular CSS-in-JS libraries (ex: styled-components) for styling.

## CSS Modules

```jsx
// 1. Converts './style.module.css' classnames to unique, scoped values.
// 2. Returns an object mapping the original classnames to their final, scoped value.
import styles from './style.module.css';

// This example uses JSX, but you can use CSS Modules with any framework.
return <div className={styles.error}>Your Error Message</div>;
```

Astro supports CSS Modules using the `[name].module.css` naming convention. Like any CSS file, importing one will automatically apply that CSS to the page. However, CSS Modules export a special default `styles` object that maps your original classnames to unique identifiers.

CSS Modules help you enforce component scoping & isolation on the frontend with unique-generated class names for your stylesheets.

## Other Assets

```jsx
import imgReference from './image.png'; // img === '/src/image.png'
import svgReference from './image.svg'; // svg === '/src/image.svg'
import txtReference from './words.txt'; // txt === '/src/words.txt'

// This example uses JSX, but you can use import references with any framework.
<img src={imgReference} />;
```

All other assets not explicitly mentioned above can be imported via ESM `import` and will return a URL reference to the final built asset. This can be useful for referencing non-JS assets by URL, like creating an image element with a `src` attribute pointing to that image.

It can also be useful to place images in the `public/`-folder as explained on the [project-structure page](/core-concepts/project-structure/#public).

## WASM

```js
// Loads and intializes the requested WASM file
const wasm = await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(fetch('/example.wasm'));
```

Astro supports loading WASM files directly into your application using the browser's [`WebAssembly`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly) API.

## NPM Packages

```js
// Returns the React & React-DOM npm packages
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
```

Astro lets you import npm packages directly in the browser. Even if a package was published using a legacy format, Astro will up-convert the package to ESM before serving it to the browser.

When you start up your dev server or run a new build, you may see a message that Snowpack is "installing dependencies". This means that Snowpack is converting your dependencies to run in the browser. This needs to run only once, or until you next change your dependency tree by adding or removing dependencies.

## Node Builtins

We encourage Astro users to avoid Node.js builtins (`fs`, `path`, etc) whenever possible. Astro aims to be compatible with multiple JavaScript runtimes in the future. This includes [Deno](https://deno.land/) and [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) which do not support Node builtin modules such as `fs`.

Our aim is to provide Astro alternatives to common Node.js builtins. However, no such alternatives exist today. So, if you _really_ need to use these builtin modules we don't want to stop you. Astro supports Node.js builtins using Node's newer `node:` prefix. If you want to read a file, for example, you can do so like this:

```astro
---
// Example: import the "fs/promises" builtin from Node.js
import fs from 'node:fs/promises';

const url = new URL('../../package.json', import.meta.url);
const json = await fs.readFile(url, 'utf-8');
const data = JSON.parse(json);
---

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```

Commit message:

docs: update some Snowpack references to Vite (#2035)
* docs: update some Snowpack references to Vite

Vite has replaced Snowpack in 0.21.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Drew Powers <1369770+drwpow@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Drew Powers <1369770+drwpow@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/pages/guides/imports.md, after:

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Supported Imports
description: Learn how to import different content types with Astro.
---

Astro uses Vite as its internal build system. Vite provides Astro with built-in support for the following file types, with no configuration required:

- JavaScript (`.js`, `.mjs`)
- TypeScript (`.ts`, `.tsx`)
- JSON (`.json`)
- JSX (`.jsx`, `.tsx`)
- CSS (`.css`)
- CSS Modules (`.module.css`)
- Images & Assets (`.svg`, `.jpg`, `.png`, etc.)
- Astro Components (`.astro`)
- Markdown (`.md`)
- WASM (`.wasm`)

Any files in your `public/` directory are copied into the final build, untouched by Vite or Astro. The following applies to files in your `src/` directory, which Astro is ultimately responsible for.

## JavaScript & ESM

Astro was designed for JavaScript's native ES Module (ESM) syntax. ESM lets you define explicit imports & exports that browsers and build tools can better understand and optimize for. If you're familiar with the `import` and `export` keywords in JavaScript, then you already know ESM!

```js
// ESM Example - src/user.js
export function getUser() {
  /* ... */
}

// src/index.js
import { getUser } from './user.js';
```

All browsers now support ESM, so Astro is able to ship this code directly to the browser during development.

## TypeScript

Astro includes built-in support to build TypeScript files (`*.ts`) to JavaScript. Astro components also support TypeScript in the frontmatter script section.

Note that this built-in support is build only. By default, Astro does not type-check your TypeScript code.

<!-- To integrate type checking into your development/build workflow, add the [@snowpack/plugin-typescript](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@snowpack/plugin-typescript) plugin. -->

## JSX

Astro includes built-in support to build JSX files (`*.jsx` & `*.tsx`) to JavaScript.

If you are using Preact, Astro will detect your Preact import and switch to use the Preact-style JSX `h()` function. This is all done automatically for you.

**Note: Astro does not support JSX in `.js`/`.ts` files.**

## JSON

```js
// Load the JSON object via the default export
import json from './data.json';
```

Astro supports importing JSON files directly into your application. Imported files return the full JSON object in the default import.

## CSS

```js
// Load and inject 'style.css' onto the page
import './style.css';
```

Astro supports importing CSS files directly into your application. Imported styles expose no exports, but importing one will automatically add those styles to the page. This works for all CSS files by default, and can support compile-to-CSS languages like Sass & Less via plugins.

If you prefer not to write CSS, Astro also supports all popular CSS-in-JS libraries (ex: styled-components) for styling.

## CSS Modules

```jsx
// 1. Converts './style.module.css' classnames to unique, scoped values.
// 2. Returns an object mapping the original classnames to their final, scoped value.
import styles from './style.module.css';

// This example uses JSX, but you can use CSS Modules with any framework.
return <div className={styles.error}>Your Error Message</div>;
```

Astro supports CSS Modules using the `[name].module.css` naming convention. Like any CSS file, importing one will automatically apply that CSS to the page. However, CSS Modules export a special default `styles` object that maps your original classnames to unique identifiers.

CSS Modules help you enforce component scoping & isolation on the frontend with unique-generated class names for your stylesheets.

## Other Assets

```jsx
import imgReference from './image.png'; // img === '/src/image.png'
import svgReference from './image.svg'; // svg === '/src/image.svg'
import txtReference from './words.txt'; // txt === '/src/words.txt'

// This example uses JSX, but you can use import references with any framework.
<img src={imgReference} />;
```

All other assets not explicitly mentioned above can be imported via ESM `import` and will return a URL reference to the final built asset. This can be useful for referencing non-JS assets by URL, like creating an image element with a `src` attribute pointing to that image.

It can also be useful to place images in the `public/`-folder as explained on the [project-structure page](/core-concepts/project-structure/#public).

## WASM

```js
// Loads and intializes the requested WASM file
const wasm = await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(fetch('/example.wasm'));
```

Astro supports loading WASM files directly into your application using the browser's [`WebAssembly`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly) API.

## NPM Packages

```js
// Returns the React & React-DOM npm packages
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
```

Astro lets you import npm packages directly in the browser. Even if a package was published using a legacy format, Astro will up-convert the package to ESM before serving it to the browser.

When you start up your dev server or run a new build, you may see a message that Vite is "installing dependencies". This means that Vite is converting your dependencies to run in the browser. This needs to run only once, or until you next change your dependency tree by adding or removing dependencies.

## Node Builtins

We encourage Astro users to avoid Node.js builtins (`fs`, `path`, etc) whenever possible. Astro aims to be compatible with multiple JavaScript runtimes in the future. This includes [Deno](https://deno.land/) and [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) which do not support Node builtin modules such as `fs`.

Our aim is to provide Astro alternatives to common Node.js builtins. However, no such alternatives exist today. So, if you _really_ need to use these builtin modules we don't want to stop you. Astro supports Node.js builtins using Node's newer `node:` prefix. If you want to read a file, for example, you can do so like this:

```astro
---
// Example: import the "fs/promises" builtin from Node.js
import fs from 'node:fs/promises';

const url = new URL('../../package.json', import.meta.url);
const json = await fs.readFile(url, 'utf-8');
const data = JSON.parse(json);
---

<span>Version: {data.version}</span>
```
