docs/core-concepts/astro-pages.md, before:

---
layout: ~/layouts/Main.astro
title: Astro Pages
---

**Pages** are a special type of [Astro Component](./astro-components) that handle routing, data loading, and templating for each page of your website. You can think of them like any other Astro component, just with extra responsibilities.

Astro also supports Markdown for content-heavy pages, like blog posts and documentation. See [Markdown Content](./markdown-content.md) for more information on writing pages with Markdown.

## File-based Routing

Astro uses Pages to do something called **file-based routing.** Every file in your `src/pages` directory becomes a page on your site, using the file name to decide the final route.

Astro Components (`.astro`) and Markdown Files (`.md`) are the only supported formats for pages. Other page types (like a `.jsx` React component) are not supported, but you can use anything as a UI component inside of an `.astro` page to achieve a similar result.

### Examples

```
src/pages/index.astro       -> mysite.com/
src/pages/about.astro       -> mysite.com/about
src/pages/about/index.astro -> mysite.com/about
src/pages/about/me.astro    -> mysite.com/about/me
src/pages/posts/1.md        -> mysite.com/posts/1
```

## Data Loading

Astro pages can fetch data to help generate your pages. Astro provides two different tools to pages to help you do this: **fetch()** and **top-level await.**

```astro
---
// Example: Astro component scripts run at build time
const response = await fetch('http://example.com/movies.json');
const data = await response.json();
console.log(data);
---
<!-- Output the result to the page -->
<div>{JSON.stringify(data)}</div>
```

### `fetch()`

Astro pages have access to the global `fetch()` function in their setup script. `fetch()` is a native JavaScript API ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API/Using_Fetch)) that lets you make HTTP requests for things like APIs and resources.

Even though Astro component scripts run inside of Node.js (and not in the browser) Astro provides this native API so that you can fetch data at page build time.

### Top-level await

`await` is another native JavaScript feature that lets you await the response of some asynchronous promise ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await)). Astro supports `await` in the top-level of your component script.

## Page Templating

All Astro components are responsible for returning HTML. Astro Pages return HTML as well, but have the unique responsibility of returning a full `<html>...</html>` page response, including `<head>` ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/head)) and `<body>` ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/body)).

`<!doctype html>` is optional, and will be added automatically.

```astro
---
// Example: HTML page skeleton
---
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Document title</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

Commit message:

Docs sync (#680)
* test ignoring examples from workspace

* docs sync

docs/core-concepts/astro-pages.md, after:

---
layout: ~/layouts/Main.astro
title: Pages
---

**Pages** are a special type of [Astro Component](/core-concepts/astro-components) that handle routing, data loading, and templating for each page of your website. You can think of them like any other Astro component, just with extra responsibilities.

Astro also supports Markdown for content-heavy pages, like blog posts and documentation. See [Markdown Content](/guides/markdown-content) for more information on writing pages with Markdown. 

## File-based Routing

Astro uses Pages to do something called **file-based routing.** Every file in your `src/pages` directory becomes a page on your site, using the file name to decide the final route.

Astro Components (`.astro`) and Markdown Files (`.md`) are the only supported formats for pages. Other page types (like a `.jsx` React component) are not supported, but you can use anything as a UI component inside of an `.astro` page to achieve a similar result.

```
src/pages/index.astro       -> mysite.com/
src/pages/about.astro       -> mysite.com/about
src/pages/about/index.astro -> mysite.com/about
src/pages/about/me.astro    -> mysite.com/about/me
src/pages/posts/1.md        -> mysite.com/posts/1
```

## Page Templating

All Astro components are responsible for returning HTML. Astro Pages return HTML as well, but have the unique responsibility of returning a full `<html>...</html>` page response, including `<head>` ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/head)) and `<body>` ([MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/body)). 

`<!doctype html>` is optional, and will be added automatically.

```astro
---
// Example: HTML page skeleton
---
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Document title</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello, world!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Data Loading

Astro pages can fetch data to help generate your pages. Astro provides two different tools to pages to help you do this: **fetch()** and **top-level await.** 

📚 Read our [full guide](/guides/data-fetching) on data-fetching to learn more.

```astro
---
// Example: Astro component scripts run at build time
const response = await fetch('http://example.com/movies.json');
const data = await response.json();
console.log(data);
---
<!-- Output the result to the page -->
<div>{JSON.stringify(data)}</div>
```
