docs/core-concepts/component-hydration.md, before:

---
layout: ~/layouts/Main.astro
title: React, Svelte, Vue, etc.
---

By default, Astro generates your site with zero client-side JavaScript. If you use any frontend UI components (React, Svelte, Vue, etc.) Astro will automatically render them **on the server**, generating only HTML and CSS without any client-side JavaScript. This makes your site as fast as possible by default.

```
---
import MyReactComponent from '../components/MyReactComponent.jsx';
---
<!-- By default: Astro renders this on the server,
     generating HTML and CSS, but no client-side JavaScript. -->
<MyReactComponent />
```

However, there are plenty of cases where you might like to include an interactive component on your page:

- An image carousel
- An auto-complete search bar
- A mobile sidebar open/close button
- A "Buy Now" button

With Astro, you can hydrate these components individually, without forcing the rest of the page to ship any other unnecesary JavaScript. This technique is called **partial hydration.**

## Hydrate Frontend Components

Astro renders every component on the server **at build time**. To hydrate any server-rendered component on the client **at runtime**, you may use any of the following techniques:

- `<MyComponent client:load />` will hydrate the component on page load.
- `<MyComponent client:idle />` will use [requestIdleCallback()][mdn-ric] to hydrate the component as soon as main thread is free.
- `<MyComponent client:visible />` will use an [IntersectionObserver][mdn-io] to hydrate the component when the element enters the viewport.

## Hydrate Astro Components

Astro components (`.astro`) are HTML-only templating languages with no client-side runtime. You cannot hydrate an Astro component to run on the client (because the JavaScript front-matter only ever runs at build time).

If you want to make your Astro component interactive on the client, you should convert it to React, Svelte, or Vue. Otherwise, you can consider adding a `<script>` tag to your Astro component that will run JavaScript on the page.

Commit message:

Adds support for client:media hydrator (#664)
* Adds support for client:media hydrator

* Include a changeset

* Pass in undefined when not hydrating

docs/core-concepts/component-hydration.md, after:

---
layout: ~/layouts/Main.astro
title: React, Svelte, Vue, etc.
---

By default, Astro generates your site with zero client-side JavaScript. If you use any frontend UI components (React, Svelte, Vue, etc.) Astro will automatically render them **on the server**, generating only HTML and CSS without any client-side JavaScript. This makes your site as fast as possible by default.

```
---
import MyReactComponent from '../components/MyReactComponent.jsx';
---
<!-- By default: Astro renders this on the server,
     generating HTML and CSS, but no client-side JavaScript. -->
<MyReactComponent />
```

However, there are plenty of cases where you might like to include an interactive component on your page:

- An image carousel
- An auto-complete search bar
- A mobile sidebar open/close button
- A "Buy Now" button

With Astro, you can hydrate these components individually, without forcing the rest of the page to ship any other unnecesary JavaScript. This technique is called **partial hydration.**

## Hydrate Frontend Components

Astro renders every component on the server **at build time**. To hydrate any server-rendered component on the client **at runtime**, you may use any of the following techniques:

- `<MyComponent client:load />` will hydrate the component on page load.
- `<MyComponent client:idle />` will use [requestIdleCallback()][mdn-ric] to hydrate the component as soon as main thread is free.
- `<MyComponent client:visible />` will use an [IntersectionObserver][mdn-io] to hydrate the component when the element enters the viewport.
- `<MyComponent client:media={QUERY} />` will use [matchMedia][mdn-mm] to hydrate the component when a media query is matched.

## Hydrate Astro Components

Astro components (`.astro`) are HTML-only templating languages with no client-side runtime. You cannot hydrate an Astro component to run on the client (because the JavaScript front-matter only ever runs at build time).

If you want to make your Astro component interactive on the client, you should convert it to React, Svelte, or Vue. Otherwise, you can consider adding a `<script>` tag to your Astro component that will run JavaScript on the page.
